[TOC]



# ICT, Market and Information

## Declaration of Generative AI in the writing process

During the preparation of this work, the author used DeepSeek-V3.1 to improve the readability of some sentences. After using this tool, the author reviewed and edited the content as needed and takes full responsibility for the content of the publication.

---

## Jensen (2007 , QJE)

Jensen, R. 2007. “The Digital Provide: Information (Technology), Market Performance, and Welfare in the South Indian Fisheries Sector.” *The Quarterly Journal of Economics* 122 (3): 879–924. https://doi.org/10.1162/qjec.122.3.879.

### Research Question

- How do improvements in information impact market performance and welfare. 
- What’s the impact of mobile phones on price dispersion and waste, together with producer and consumer welfare (in Kerala, a state in India with a large fishing industry). 

### Data

- surveys in Kerala’s three northern districts, every week from September 3, 1996, to May 29, 2001, where each fishing unit was asked for the amount of fish caught, market of sale, quantity sold, sale price, time of sale, costs, and whether they used a mobile phone. 

### Method

- mainly a DID strategy; 
- also a reduced-form welfare analysis (considering prices for fishermen and consumers)

### Contribution

- empirical evidence based on micro-level data to examine basic economic theories of information.

### Conclusion

- The addition of mobile phones reduced price dispersion and waste and increased fishers’ profits and consumer welfare . 
- The benefits of ICTs can be found among fishermen or farmers, not just software engineers or call-center workers.

### Comments

- Price dispersion is a good measure on market failure by limited or costly information (putting Law of One Price in practice). 
- A perfect “introduction” writing to learn!

### Stars: 4

- rigor: 4
- innovation: 5
- writing: 5

---

## Jensen and Miller (2018,  AER)

Jensen, Robert, and Nolan H. Miller. 2018. “Market Integration, Demand, and the Growth of Firms: Evidence From a Natural Experiment in India.” *American Economic Review* 108 (12): 3583–625. https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20161965.

### Research Question

- Since the introduction of mobile phones lead to better effectiveness in the market of fish, what about the market of boats? 

### Data

- No official data available about the boat industry. Thus, the authors worked with local knowledgeable officials and NGOs to identify all boat landing spots. They then visited each of these landings and conducted brief surveys with the owners of every boat at the landing, to create a complete list of all boat builders serving the study region. Using this list, they conducted a complete census of all boat building firms, repeated every six months for a six-year period from January 1998 to January 2004.
- The same phone and fishing industry data as Jensen (2007 QJE).

### Method

- simple regression on mobile phone dummy, boat quality measurement, and the interaction of the two.

- Four approaches to measuring boat quality or life expectancy
  1. fishers’ recall on previous boat life; 
  2. independent assessment; 
  3. fishers’ estimation of the boats built by their local builder and any other builders they knew lasted on average; 
  4. regression residual. 

### Contribution

- emphasize the role of information and learning

### Conclusion

- The introduction of mobile phones in Kerala induced spillovers from the market for fish to the market for boats, increasing boat-buyers’ information about non-local builders. 
- Mobile phones led to more accurate information about the quality of non-local builders. 
- The lack of market integration, limiting demand or effective market size, is a limitation to firm growth. 

### Comments

- It’s a good expansion to Jensen (2007 QJE) “along the industry chain”, based on surveys. 
- The four approaches to measuring boat quality or life expectancy are extremely ingenious and convincing! 
- The discussion about the relationship to the Melitz (2003) is amazing! 
- What about agriculture machines in China? Is it convenient for farmers to get knowledge about producers nationwide, with the price and quality information? And the subsidy project, or the state’s role in this setting? 

### Stars: 5

- rigor: 5
- innovation: 5
- writing style: 5

---

## Aker (2010 AEJApp)

Aker, Jenny C. 2010. “Information from Markets Near and Far: Mobile Phones and Agricultural Markets in Niger.” *American Economic Journal: Applied Economics* 2 (3): 46–59. https://doi.org/10.1257/app.2.3.46.

### Research Question

- What’s the impact of mobile phones on price dispersion across grain markets in Niger.

### Data

- monthly agricultural prices over an eight year period (1999–2006) across 37 domestic markets, together with monthly data on gas prices, mobile phone and landline coverage, road quality, trade flows, and district population levels; 
- a survey of traders, transporters, and market resource persons in Niger including 415 traders located in 35 markets across 6 geographic regions of Niger. 

### Method

- a differencein-differences (DD) model with pooled treatments (combining DD estimation with matching techniques) .

### Contribution

- New data
- better estimating method (in 2010).

**Conclusion**

- The introduction of mobile phones is associated with a 10 to 16 percent reduction in price dispersion across markets, with a larger impact for those market pairs with higher transport costs. 
- Information provision is necessary, but not sufficient, for welfare improvements, esp. in the presence of other market failures. 

### Comments

- Observations on market-pair level might be a good strategy if we don’t have large sample data, according to the research setting. 

### Stars: 3

- rigor: 4
- innovation: 3
- writing style: 4

---

## Aker and Mbiti (2010 JEP)

Aker, Jenny C, and Isaac M Mbiti. 2010. “Mobile Phones and Economic Development in Africa.” *Journal of Economic Perspectives* 24 (3): 207–32. https://doi.org/10.1257/jep.24.3.207.

### Research Question

- What’s the evolution of mobile phone coverage and adoption in sub-Saharan Africa in a decade(1999-2008) . 
- How the mobile phones can effect economic outcomes and what’s its potential to improve economic development.  

### Method

Data visualization; literature review

### Contribution

A summary on this topic; an intuitive framework to analyse the welfare effect of mobile phones (or more broadly, ICT technologies).  

### Conclusion 

Mobile phone usage in sub-Saharan Africa has grown significantly over the past decade and now covers 60 percent of the population. Empirical evidence shows that mobile phones have the potential to benefit consumer and producer welfare, and perhaps broader economic development.  

### Comments

- An important and special sub-Saharan African background: in many places mobile phones have represented the first modern telecommunications infrastructure of any kind ! Thus, (a) the endogeneity concerns are largely relieved; (b) more attention would be paid to the updating communication infrastructure and smarter phones in latter researches.
- Technology charterers do matter (through opportunity cost): mobile phone require base stations rather than the wires.

###  Stars: 3

- rigor: 4
- innovation: 3
- writing style: 4

---

